#summary This page describes our working and coding conventions.

=== IDE ===
Our reference IDE is an English Eclipse 3.6 Helios.

=== Source Code Format ===
We work with the source code format defined in the idocit_formatter.xml (available in the Downloads-section).

How to import it:

  # Open the Preferences-Dialog (Window > Preferences).
  # Choose the page Java > Code Style > Formatter.
  # Import the downloaded file via the "Import ..."-button.

=== Copyrights ===
Due to the licences of our projects we add a copyright-header to each of our source-files. We use the Eclipse Copyright Tool to add these predefined texts. 

====Installation of Eclipse Copyright Tool====
Update Site: http://download.eclipse.org/eclipse/updates/3.6

Node: Releng Tools > Eclipse Releng Tools

====Configuration====

 # Open the Eclipse Preference Dialog via "Window" > "Preferences".
 # Choose the preference page "Copyright Tool"
 # Add one of the following copyright-templates to the corresponding text box.
 # Activate the checkbox "Replace all existing copyright comments [...]"

====Copyright Templates====

For projects:
 * de.akra.idocit
 * de.akra.idocit.ui
 * de.akra.idocit.java
 * de.akra.idocit.wsdl

{{{
Copyright 2011 AKRA GmbH

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
}}}

For project:
* de.akra.idocit.nlp.stanford

{{{
Copyright 2011 AKRA GmbH 

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
}}}

====How to use the Copyright Tool?====
 # Right click the resource you want to add the copyright headers to.
 # Select item "Fix copyrights" from the context-menu.