#summary This page describes how to install and configure iDocIt!.
#labels Installation,Configuration,Featured

= Installation =

*Prerequisites:*
 * Eclipse 3.6 (Helios) [http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/packages/eclipse-classic-362/heliossr2 Download]
 * Wordnet Dictionary 3.0 for UNIX-like systems (*you can use this also for Windows!*) [http://wordnet.princeton.edu/wordnet/download/ Download]
 * Stanford PoS-Tagger-Models Basic Version 3.0.1 [http://nlp.stanford.edu/software/tagger.shtml Download]

*Installation:*
 # [http://code.google.com/p/idocit/downloads/list Download] the Plugin-JARs from the Download-Section of this website. In any case you need de.akra.idocit.jar (iDocIt-Core) and de.akra.idocit.ui.jar (iDocIt-GUI). Depending on your requirements you may need also de.akra.idocit.wsdl (Plugin with WSDL Support) or de.akra.idocit.java (Plugin with Java Support).
 # Copy the downloaded JAR-files into the „plugins“-folder of your Eclipse installation folder.
 # Extract the Wordnet and PoS-Tagger into a special folder on your disk drive.
 # Start you Eclipse installation and open a workspace.

= Configuration =

== Basic Setup ==
Open the "iDocIt!"-Preference Page.
 * As *Wordnet Path* enter the path to the subdirectory "dict" of your Wordnet-installation, e.g. "/home/myusername/wordnet/dict"
 * We have achieved the best PoS-tagging results for english identifiers by using the model "left3words-distsim-wsj-0-18.tagger" as *PoS-Tagger Model*. Enter the complete path with the filename of the model here, e.g. "/home/myusername/tagger/left3words-distsim-wsj-0-18.tagger".

== Addressees ==

You can specify the groups of groups of addressees of you API documentation via the corresponding Preference Page.

 * On the left hand side you can see a list of configured addressee-groups. By clicking the buttons below this list, you can add new addressee-groups or delete the selected ones.

 * On the right hand side you edit the name of the selected group and enter a description text. The group-name is be used as label for the tab in the docpart-editing component. The description text is the tooltip of the corresponding addressee-tab.

 * If the checkbox "Default" for an addressee-group is activated, a tab for this group is created with every newly added docpart.

*Please note:* iDocIt! uses the stakeholders of interface documentation identified and published by Clements et al. as default-addressees. For further information on them see the great book [http://www.amazon.com/Documenting-Software-Architectures-p-Clements-F-Bachmann-L-Bass-D-Garlan-J-Ivers-R-Little/dp/B003WEPPOC/ref=sr_1_6?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1303241275&sr=8-6 Documenting Software Architectures], pages 237 - 239.

== Thematic Roles ==

You can define the underlying thematic grids of iDocIt! via the corresponding Preference Page. The relevant theoretical background is described in the [http://nats-www.informatik.uni-hamburg.de/pub/User/JanChristianKrause/SETP-10-Pub.pdf paper] [http://nats-www.informatik.uni-hamburg.de/User/JanChristianKrause Jan Christian] presented on the [http://www.promoteresearch.org/2010/setp/index.html SETP-10-conference] in 2010. A hands-on tutorial could be found in this wiki.

 * On the left you can see a list of all locally defined thematic grids. Locally means that these grids are available in you current workspace. You can define new grids or remove existing ones by clicking the corresponding buttons below this list.
 * On the right you can edit the name and the description of the choosen grid. The names are used to identify the grid when recommending roles to you in the iDocIt!-editor.
 * You have to enter the verbs the current grid belongs to. In case of more than one word, you have to seperate them with commas.
 * You also have to define which thematic roles belong to the current grid. This can be done by activating the checkbox before the role's name in the listbox bottom right. Via a right click on the role you can define wheher it is mandantory or optional for the current grid. Mandantory roles must to be documented. For optional roles it is recommended to document them.